[console_scripts]
bayestar-inject = ligo.skymap.tool.bayestar_inject:main
bayestar-localize-coincs = ligo.skymap.tool.bayestar_localize_coincs:main
bayestar-localize-lvalert = ligo.skymap.tool.bayestar_localize_lvalert:main
bayestar-mcmc = ligo.skymap.tool.bayestar_mcmc:main
bayestar-realize-coincs = ligo.skymap.tool.bayestar_realize_coincs:main
bayestar-sample-model-psd = ligo.skymap.tool.bayestar_sample_model_psd:main
ligo-skymap-combine = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_combine:main
ligo-skymap-constellations = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_constellations:main
ligo-skymap-contour = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_contour:main
ligo-skymap-contour-moc = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_contour_moc:main
ligo-skymap-flatten = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_flatten:main
ligo-skymap-from-samples = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_from_samples:main
ligo-skymap-plot = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_plot:main
ligo-skymap-plot-airmass = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_plot_airmass:main
ligo-skymap-plot-coherence = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_plot_coherence:main
ligo-skymap-plot-observability = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_plot_observability:main
ligo-skymap-plot-pp-samples = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_plot_pp_samples:main
ligo-skymap-plot-stats = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_plot_stats:main
ligo-skymap-plot-volume = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_plot_volume:main
ligo-skymap-stats = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_stats:main
ligo-skymap-unflatten = ligo.skymap.tool.ligo_skymap_unflatten:main

[pytest11]
omp-get-num-threads = ligo.skymap.tests.plugins.omp
